IRC: freenode, #drupal, #drupal-contribute, #drupal-support, dozens of others
Source: https://git.drupal.org/project/drupal.git
Mailing List Archive: none
Documentation: 
Other channels: 
Website: https://www.drupal.org

A. Game Engine, focused on providing developers with the tools they need to make games, no strings attached.

B. Last commit was October 5th (today). 1.0 was released in December of 2014, having been an in-house engine previous to that.

C. There are many direct committers, but there is one developer who handles the majority of pull requests. 

D. There are 249 total contributors, and it’s hard to tell if everyone has commit access. There are about as many direct commits as pull requests merged into master.

E. Unique knowledge

F. The coefficient of fail is 60. Again, it could probably be more accurate, as I didn't investigate every item as thoroughly as I could have, but I think it's accurate enough for our purposes.

G. Most of the top contributors are very regular, but more than half seem to have started contributing in the past year or so. One of the top developers stopped contributing about a year ago.

H. The BDFL is Juan Linietsky. He started the project, and is currently the top contributor, with 60 commits to the repo in September. Coming in a close second is the co-founder, Ariel Manzur, who is slightly less active than Juan.

I. Most people on the project seem to touch different parts, with the different types of work being fairly distributed among developers.

J. What have been some of the major bugs/problems/issues that have arisen during development? Who is responsible for quality control and bug repair?

K. The co-founders are still the top contributors, but the community is very active. Participation has spiked for Hacktoberfest, but it has been very steady recently.

L. If any single developer were eaten, the project would survive. The community actively contributes and discusses architecture and the future of the project, so there would not be a lack of vision if either of the 

M. If the top 20% of contributors were hit by a bus, there's a good chance the project would fall into disrepair. However, given the number of contributors, it's possible the community could recover, and at the very least continue maintenance.

N. The guide for new contributors provides a solid baseline. It covers basic Git, documentation, and the basic processes used to identify, classify, and fix bugs.

O. The documentation is fairly extensive. There is a repository dedicated to examples, and they cover a large variety of topics.

P. The Github community is fairly responsive, so I might try posting there, but the IRC channel also has a large number of active users.

Q. The decision-making processs is fairly democratic, with many voices contributing to design decisions. 

R. The structure seems solid. I like the amount of discussion that goes on about how to do things, it's not just a few people making decisions and everybody else going along with it. That's the kind of environment I like to be in.